Welcome back.
It's time to get into functional programming.
The other major programming paradigm and in this section we're gonna be getting deep into functional
programming turning a code into functional code and also talking about things such as curing partial
applications pure functions Referential transparency composing and piping.
There's gonna be a lot of new terms that will uncover in this section but don't worry I'll show you
how they're gonna be useful to us how they're going to make us better coders and we're also going to
finish up the section by talking about composition versus inheritance what then means and also comparing
functional programming to object oriented programming.
What are the pros and cons when should you use one over the other.
And hopefully by the end of it all you're a better programmer because you understand these two paradigms
and how you can use them to improve your programs your code.
Now functional programming has existed for over 60 years.
Lisp which is a very popular functional programming language was first developed in nineteen fifty eight
and the idea of functional programming originates from mathematics from something called lambda calculus.
And sometimes it can get very confusing.
However in recent years the popularity of functional programming has really surged.
Now why is that programming languages that are built with functional programming in mind such as Haskell
scalar closure.
They work really really well when it comes to distributed computing where there's multiple machines
interacting with data and also parallelism which is machines working on the same data at the same time
and also in javascript libraries like redux and even react have really popularized the idea of functional
programming among other things.
So all this talk about functional programming what is it actually and how can we use it as programmers.
Well by the end hopefully you'll find this cartoon funny and you understand what functional programming
is.
Let's get started.